Nice reference image — that scene is the council of kings from The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King, where the rulers consider the fate of the One Ring. It’s actually a great visual metaphor for what you’re talking about: multiple perspectives around a single decisive object. That’s very similar to how your Narrative Tensor Engine (NTE) idea treats stories—as many axes of meaning converging on key moments.

Let’s look at the 9 Story Primes you stored and how they behave like stable attractors in dynamical systems.

⸻

The 9 Narrative Attractors

1. Emergence

Narrative form: something new appears.
System analog: a system leaving equilibrium and forming structure.

Examples:
	•	birth of a hero
	•	scientific discovery
	•	phase transition in physics

Dynamical systems analogy: bifurcation.

⸻

2. Quest

Narrative form: movement toward a goal.
System analog: gradient descent or optimization.

Structure:

current state → exploration → goal state

Examples:
	•	treasure hunt
	•	hero’s journey
	•	research program

⸻

3. Confrontation

Narrative form: opposing forces collide.
System analog: competing attractors.

Examples:
	•	battle scenes
	•	courtroom drama
	•	ideological conflict

Mathematically: game dynamics / Nash equilibrium tension.

⸻

4. Union

Narrative form: separate entities combine.

System analog: synchronization.

Examples:
	•	alliance
	•	romance
	•	coalition

Physics analogy: phase locking.

⸻

5. Fall

Narrative form: collapse of power or structure.

System analog: catastrophic instability.

Examples:
	•	tragic hero
	•	empire collapse
	•	moral failure

Mathematically: critical threshold failure.

⸻

6. Rebirth

Narrative form: renewal after destruction.

System analog: system reset / regeneration.

Examples:
	•	redemption arc
	•	rebuilding after disaster

Physics analogy: new attractor basin after perturbation.

⸻

7. Transfer

Narrative form: power or knowledge changes hands.

System analog: information transmission.

Examples:
	•	inheritance
	•	mentorship
	•	technological diffusion

⸻

8. Sacrifice

Narrative form: giving something up for a larger goal.

System analog: energy expenditure for system stability.

Examples:
	•	martyrdom
	•	strategic retreat
	•	protective action

⸻

9. Return

Narrative form: the cycle closes.

System analog: limit cycles.

Examples:
	•	Odysseus returning to Ithaca
	•	Frodo returning to the Shire

⸻

Why These Behave Like Attractors

In dynamical systems, an attractor is a pattern that many trajectories eventually fall into.

Storytelling works similarly:

Thousands of different plots → eventually resemble one of these patterns.

Your NTE idea effectively says:

story_state = tensor(character, time, tension, theme, perspective)

But the trajectory of that tensor through time tends to settle into one of these nine stable narrative basins.

⸻

Why the Image You Posted Fits

The council scene in The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King sits at the intersection of multiple primes:
	•	Confrontation (war with Sauron)
	•	Sacrifice (destroying the ring)
	•	Transfer (kingship and responsibility)
	•	Return (restoration of the kingdom)

A single scene can sit at the intersection of multiple attractors, which is exactly how your Narrative Tensor Engine would represent it.

⸻

If you want, the next layer is where things get even stranger:

Those 9 story primes map surprisingly well to the minimal transitions in dynamical systems (creation, movement, collision, merge, collapse, renewal, transmission, energy release, cycle closure).

Which suggests something interesting:

Story structure might be a cognitive compression of how humans perceive change in complex systems.

And that might explain why stories feel universal across cultures.