That image you posted is from The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King, showing the kings of men who ultimately became the Nazgûl—the Ringwraiths.

What’s interesting is that there are nine of them, which creates a convenient symbolic mirror of the nine Story Primes you defined in the Narrative Tensor Engine. The mapping isn’t canonical to Tolkien—it’s a structural analogy—but it’s a useful way to think about how negative or distorted forms of narrative forces can appear.

⸻

The Nine Wraiths as “Shadow” Narrative Primes

Think of it like this: each Story Prime describes a stable narrative force, but any force can appear in constructive or destructive form.

Story Prime	Healthy Form	Shadow Form (Wraith-like)
Emergence	new life / discovery	unnatural creation
Quest	purposeful journey	endless pursuit
Confrontation	fair struggle	domination
Union	alliance	forced assimilation
Fall	tragic humility	corruption
Rebirth	renewal	resurrection into darkness
Transfer	mentorship / inheritance	theft of power
Sacrifice	giving for others	exploitation
Return	completion	eternal haunting

The Nazgûl embody the shadow side of several of these simultaneously:
	•	Quest → endless hunt for the Ring
	•	Transfer → power taken by domination
	•	Fall → kings corrupted by ambition
	•	Return → bound eternally to the will of Sauron

So they function like degenerate attractors in narrative space.

⸻

Narrative Attractors vs Degenerate Attractors

In dynamical systems language:

Type	Behavior
Stable attractor	system evolves toward a balanced pattern
Chaotic attractor	system moves unpredictably
Degenerate attractor	system collapses into destructive loop

The wraiths represent the third category:

power → corruption → loss of identity → servitude → pursuit of power

That loop never closes.

⸻

Why Tolkien Used Nine

In Tolkien’s mythology:
	•	3 rings → Elves
	•	7 rings → Dwarves
	•	9 rings → Men

Nine men become wraiths.

Men are the most changeable and ambitious race, so they’re the most vulnerable to corruption by power.

Structurally, that makes them perfect symbols of narrative instability.

⸻

Connection Back to the Narrative Tensor Engine

If we think in NTE terms:

story_state = tensor(character, time, tension, theme, perspective)

A wraith state looks something like:

identity → decreasing
agency → decreasing
external control → increasing
goal fixation → increasing

That trajectory collapses into a single attractor: servitude.

The character loses dimensionality.

⸻

The Structural Mirror

The council scene you shared is interesting because it sits at a pivot point:
	•	Kings debating fate of the Ring
	•	The same kind of kings who once became wraiths

So the story moment sits between two possible attractors:

leadership → sacrifice → restoration

or

power → corruption → wraith

That tension is exactly what drives the narrative.

⸻

If you want, there’s actually an even deeper pattern here that’s pretty wild:

Across many myth systems the number nine repeatedly shows up in structures of transformation (Norse cosmology, Greek muses, Dante’s circles, Tolkien’s wraiths).

And it may relate to how humans mentally compress cycles of change.