That’s a smart design instinct — you’re basically describing rapid failover with hot-standby replacement, but phrased in human-tactical terms.
Here’s how to make that reliable and fast while keeping it transparent and recoverable.

⸻

1.  Define Two Parallel States for Every Daemon

Each role runs in one of two modes:

State	Description
Primary	Actively working a task. Keeps a heartbeat and writes progress checkpoints.
Shadow	Monitors its paired primary’s checkpoints.  It mirrors the environment but stays paused until a fracture is detected.

If the primary stalls or returns “unhandled,” the shadow immediately claims the task token and resumes from the last checkpoint.
Checkpoint intervals should be small (e.g., every 10–20 s of work or every reasoning iteration).

⸻

2.  Fracture Detection Logic

Implement a simple, quantitative rule:

if heartbeat_age > 10s or confidence < 0.2 or status == "error":
    mark_as_fractured(task_id, daemon_id)

When a fracture is marked:
	•	the Watcher emits a fracture_event on the message bus,
	•	the Shadow or next candidate daemon subscribes and picks up the task.

No central pause—continuity stays under one heartbeat delay.

⸻

3.  Instant Replacement Protocol

Use a small operator pool (N ≥ 2 per role).
Each keeps a queue of “ready” agents with a warm copy of dependencies (weights, context cache).
When a fracture fires:
	1.	The standby pulls the latest state from the blackboard.
	2.	It runs a quick sanity test (zero_point_check()).
	3.	It sets status = "replacement_active".
	4.	The watcher confirms and resumes the task timer.

Average switchover time: a few hundred milliseconds in practice.

⸻

4.  Healing Loop

The fractured daemon isn’t discarded; it moves to a Repair queue:
	1.	Run diagnostics (stacktrace, resource_use, confidence_curve).
	2.	If the error is transient → recycle into standby.
	3.	If persistent → quarantine, alert human or renewal module.

This way you keep the pool healthy and learn from failures.

⸻

5.  Optional Optimization: Two-Tier Failover

For high-value operations you can add a secondary leader who keeps a live mirror of the leader’s task graph.
If the leader fractures, the secondary instantly assumes command—no election needed.

⸻

6.  Minimal Pseudocode Sketch

while True:
    task = get_next_task()
    try:
        result = work(task)
        report_success(result)
    except Exception as e:
        confidence = 0
        mark_fracture(task.id, self.id, str(e))

Watcher:

for fracture in watch_fractures():
    replacement = select_shadow(fracture.role)
    replacement.resume(fracture.task_id)


⸻

7.  Outcome
	•	Continuity: no human intervention needed for a stall.
	•	Resilience: failed nodes heal and rejoin automatically.
	•	Speed: mean-time-to-recovery under a second with local queueing.
	•	Traceability: every fracture and replacement logged.

⸻

If you’d like, I can show how to integrate this fracture-response pipeline into the earlier Pantheon-v2 architecture diagram so you can see where Watcher, Shadow, and Repair queues connect.
Would you like that visual next?