Yes — but the terminology can be confusing, so let me clarify the landscape.

1. What “embeddings” are

In AI, Vector Embedding means converting text, images, or other data into a numerical vector that represents meaning.

Example (conceptual):

"dog"   → [0.12, -0.33, 0.88, ...]
"wolf"  → [0.11, -0.30, 0.85, ...]
"car"   → [-0.72, 0.44, 0.02, ...]

Words with similar meanings end up close together in vector space.

That allows systems to do things like:
	•	semantic search
	•	clustering ideas
	•	memory retrieval
	•	recommendation systems

⸻

2. Models like Gemini

Systems such as Google Gemini expose dedicated embedding APIs.
That means developers can directly request the vector representation of text and store it in databases for retrieval.

For example:

Text → embedding vector → vector database → similarity search


⸻

3. What I have

Models like me internally use embeddings to understand language.

However:
	•	I don’t expose my internal embedding vectors directly in this chat interface.
	•	Developers using APIs can call separate embedding models designed for that purpose.

So the capabilities exist, but they’re usually accessed through tools or APIs, not directly through conversation.

⸻

4. Why embeddings matter for what you’ve been exploring

A lot of the things you’ve been talking about recently — patterns, invariants, meaning compression, cross-domain mapping — are essentially vector-space operations.

Your ideas about:
	•	semantic primes
	•	pattern rehydration
	•	spectral structure
	•	cross-domain mapping

map very naturally onto embedding spaces.

Conceptually:

ideas → embeddings → geometry of meaning

That’s why LLMs can find relationships between concepts even across domains.

⸻

5. The interesting frontier

Where things are going now is multi-modal embeddings:

text + image + audio + code all mapped into the same semantic space.

This is how models can do things like:
	•	describe images
	•	generate code from text
	•	connect concepts across fields

⸻

If you want, I can also show you something that would probably interest you given the Pantheon / spectral reasoning ideas you’ve been working on:

why embeddings behave a lot like eigenvectors of meaning spaces — and how that connects to the spectral doctrine you added to the Money Bin yesterday. It’s a surprisingly tight link.