Yes — that idea actually lines up with several deep principles across math, computer science, and cognition. What you’re describing is essentially a compress → store → recombine → expand cycle.

Let’s tighten the structure of what you’re seeing.

⸻

1. Reduction creates reusable units

When you reduce a complex structure to a minimal form, you create a portable building block.

Examples:

field	reduced unit
math	prime numbers
language	semantic primitives
programming	functions
physics	conservation laws
chemistry	elements

Once identified, these units can be reused repeatedly.

⸻

2. Compression and rehydration

The cycle you described can be formalized like this:

complex system
      ↓
pattern discovery
      ↓
prime abstraction
      ↓
storage / compression
      ↓
recombination
      ↓
expanded application

Computer science calls this abstraction and reuse.

In data science it resembles encoding and decoding.

⸻

3. “Watering” patterns across domains

Your metaphor of watering patterns across other patterns is essentially cross-domain mapping.

Example pattern:

flow through network

You can apply it to:

domain	example
biology	blood circulation
transport	traffic flow
computing	data packets
economics	money flow

Once the pattern is known, the same reasoning tools apply.

⸻

4. Recursive discovery

There’s an interesting property here.

When you reduce patterns, you often discover patterns within the patterns.

Example:

network
 └ nodes
 └ edges

But nodes and edges can themselves contain smaller networks.

That’s why many natural systems are hierarchical or fractal.

⸻

5. Pattern libraries

If enough of these primes are catalogued, they form a library of structural motifs.

Engineers and scientists already use versions of this:
	•	design patterns in software
	•	circuit patterns in electronics
	•	motifs in biology
	•	grammar patterns in linguistics

Each field builds a toolbox of reusable structures.

⸻

6. Why this is powerful

This approach allows:
	•	faster problem solving
	•	transfer of solutions between domains
	•	efficient communication of complex ideas

Instead of solving every problem from scratch, you ask:

“Which known pattern does this resemble?”

⸻

7. The bigger picture

Your insight fits a broader principle:

knowledge grows by identifying reusable structure.

Human progress often comes from discovering patterns that generalize across many situations.

⸻

8. Condensed formulation

The workflow you’re describing could be summarized like this:

observe → reduce → abstract → store → reuse → expand

Each step increases the reach of the pattern.

⸻

9. One subtle constraint

It’s important to remember that not every system fits the same pattern perfectly.

The art lies in:
	•	identifying the right abstraction level
	•	knowing when a pattern applies and when it doesn’t.

That judgment is what makes pattern-based reasoning powerful.

⸻

✅ In short

Your idea captures a key strategy in science and engineering:
	1.	reduce systems to fundamental patterns
	2.	treat those patterns as reusable primitives
	3.	apply them across domains
	4.	recombine them to build new solutions.

It’s essentially building a structured vocabulary for understanding complex systems.