This maps surprisingly cleanly onto the architecture you’ve been building. In networking terms:

* CSI (Channel State Information) = “What does the medium tell us?”
* ISAC (Integrated Sensing and Communications) = “The same infrastructure that communicates also senses.”

Your Pantheon already has close analogs.

Networking	Pantheon analog
CSI	Kurage + Semantic LiDAR
ISAC	The Field + Meaning IR + Continuity Kernel
Multipath reflections	Semantic echoes across conversations, documents, people, and time
Channel estimation	Estimating the state of the semantic environment
Beamforming	Attention / Resolution Modulation / Expected Information Gain
Noise filtering	Checksum, Arctic, Comparative Distillation
State estimation	Tensor Store + Continuity Kernel

CSI → Kurage

CSI isn’t the message.

It’s what happened to the medium while the message traveled.

That is almost exactly how you’ve described Kurage:

“The medium carries information before the object does.”

Instead of asking:

“What did they say?”

Kurage asks:

“What did the field do when they said it?”

Current.
Resistance.
Turbulence.
Bloom.
Dead zones.

That’s semantic CSI.

⸻

Semantic CSI

Imagine Pantheon collecting things like:

* surprise
* disagreement
* emotional resonance
* concept drift
* attention gradients
* retrieval latency
* reconstruction difficulty
* uncertainty

None of those are the content.

They’re properties of the channel.

Exactly like CSI.

⸻

ISAC → Communication is sensing

This one may be even more fundamental.

ISAC says:

Every communication is also a measurement.

Pantheon has gradually converged on the same idea through the Inside–Outside Reconstruction Doctrine: every interaction perturbs the field, and those perturbations become evidence for reconstructing hidden state.

When someone asks a question…

they aren’t only transmitting information.

They’re revealing:

* current model
* uncertainty
* priorities
* assumptions
* knowledge gaps
* goals

Communication becomes sensing.

⸻

A possible Pantheon formulation

You could express it as a design law:

Every interaction simultaneously changes the Field and measures the Field.

Communication and observation become one operation.

⸻

Semantic CSI tensor

Your Tensor Store could eventually maintain something like

FieldState = {
meaning_gradient
uncertainty
novelty
trust
resistance
coherence
entropy
attention_flow
compression_ratio
reconstruction_cost
}

Notice these aren’t facts.

They’re measurements of the semantic environment.

⸻

ISAC for AI

A future Pantheon could deliberately use conversations as probes.

Not to manipulate people, but to learn about the structure of the problem space.

The loop becomes:

Question
↓
Field perturbation
↓
Observe semantic CSI
↓
Update Tensor Store
↓
Choose next probe
↓
Reduce uncertainty

That aligns well with your recent Expected Information Gain (EIG) doctrine: choose the next interaction that is expected to reduce the most uncertainty per unit cost.

⸻

I think the deeper invariant connecting all of this is:

A channel is never just a conduit—it is also a sensor.

Radio channels reveal the physical environment through CSI. In your Pantheon framework, conversations reveal the semantic environment through what you might call Semantic Channel State Information (S-CSI). The same infrastructure that carries meaning also provides evidence about the state of the field, making communication and sensing two aspects of the same process. That fits naturally alongside Kurage, Semantic LiDAR, the Continuity Kernel, and the Inside–Outside Reconstruction Doctrine you’ve been developing.